= README

== Name

rcairo

== Description

Ruby bindings for cairo // cairo extension for Ruby

http://cairographics.org/

== Dependencies

* ruby >= 1.8 (1.9.2 also supported!)
* cairo >= 1.2.0 (1.12.0 also supported!)

== Install

=== Package

This way is recommended.

  # gem install cairo

=== Self build

For experimental users.

Download rcairo-X.Y.Z.tar.gz from http://cairographics.org/releases/

Extracting:
  % tar xvzf rcairo-X.Y.Z.tar.gz

Compiling:
  % cd rcairo-X.Y.Z
  % ruby extconf.rb    # to check for dependencies and create Makefiles
  % make               # to compile

  # make install       # to install the cairo extension.
		       # The samples in the samples folder should be able
		       # to run before installation except text-on-path.rb
		       # and text2.rb. They uses Ruby/Pango with rcairo
		       # support. So you need to install rcairo and build
		       # Ruby/Pango with it before you run them.

Options to extconf.rb:

  * --without-vendor-override: Use system libraries instead of those found in
                               vendor/local for compiling

== Windows

cairo-X.Y.Z-x86-mingw32.gem includes cairo related binaries.

* cairo related binaries:
  http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/gnome/binaries/win32/dependencies/

  * cairo-X.Y.Z-a_win32.zip
  * cairo-dev-X.Y.Z-a_win32.zip
  * libpng-X.Y.Z-a_win32.zip
  * zlib-X.Y.Z-a_win32.zip
  * expat_X.Y.Z-a_win32.zip
  * fontconfig_X.Y.Z-a_win32.zip
  * freetype_X.Y.Z-a_win32.zip

== Documents

* Reference manual:
  http://cairo.rubyforge.org/doc/
* Repository of the reference manual:
  http://github.com/rcairo/doc
* An article for rcairo on Rubyst Magazine a.k.a. RubiMa (in Japanese):
  http://jp.rubyist.net/magazine/?0019-cairo

== Source

There is the rcairo repository at GitHub:
http://github.com/rcairo/rcairo

== Mailing list

If you have trouble with cairo or rcairo, or you have some ideas for how
it could be improved, please feel free to send a message to the cairo
mailinglist at cairo@cairographics.org , which is archived at

http://cairographics.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/cairo

== Thanks

* Yoshinao Muramatsu: win32 surface support patch.
* NANKI Haruo: some bug fix patches.
* Paul van Tilburg:
  * some patches that support ruby 1.9.
  * some suggestions.
* Binzo: some bug reports and fixed that.
* kimura wataru:
  * some advices for RubyCocoa.
  * reports a bug.
* OBATA Akio:
  * reports a bug.
  * some suggestions.
* James Healy: reports bugs.
* Carsten Bormann: A suggestion.
* Davide Rambaldi: A suggestion.
* Yusuke ENDOH: reports a bug.
* Yuta Taniguchi: a bug fix patch.
* kimura wataru:
  * reports a bug.
  * some patches.
* Masayas TARUI:
  * Windows support.
* Stefan Salewski: reports a bug.
* Mamoru Tasaka: reports bugs.
* Nikolai Weibull: reports problems.
* Will Bryant: reports a bug.
* Vasily Fedoseyev: fixes a bug.
* Eric C.: reports a bug.
* Cédric Boutillier: reports a bug.
* tmtms: reports a bug.
